Add 2022-12-14 agenda and minutes (#488)
solid/specification: meetings/2022-12-14.md

  * https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/9 
* SC: Current UCRs:
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/
  * https://solid.github.io/notifications-panel/notifications-ucr/
  * https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/55 ( https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/80 )
* SC: Involving the DEIT (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Team) to review UCs:
  * https://github.com/solid/deit/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-09.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development

### Documentation and Discovery
* SC: We have a lot of information and so there is room to improve UCs discovery and communication.
* SC: Questions/Concerns on how to improve:

### Contribution Guidelines
* SC: How to contribute to user stories/cases (documentation and in meetings):
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
* SC: Describes participants proposing topics before or during meeting:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md
* SC: Topic proposals following the meeting template:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/template.md

> 

Reviewer: ### Polls or Surveys
* VB: We can also look into ways to gather data about Use Cases or feedback about process, among other things.
* VB: There is WIP on [Solid Community Survey](https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/survey) that will be published on solidproject.org.
* VB: Can we use Solid apps to collect and share this data? Which other tools can we use that's in the spirit of the Solid project (open source, good privacy / terms of service).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Polls or Surveys
* VB: We can also look into ways to gather data about Use Cases or feedback about process, among other things.
* VB: There is WIP on [Solid Community Survey](https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/survey) that will be published on solidproject.org.
* VB: Can we use Solid apps to collect and share this data? Which other tools can we use that's in the spirit of the Solid project (open source, good privacy / terms of service).
```

  * https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/9 
* SC: Current UCRs:
  * https://solid.github.io/authorization-panel/authorization-ucr/
  * https://solid.github.io/notifications-panel/notifications-ucr/
  * https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/55 ( https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/80 )
* SC: Involving the DEIT (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Team) to review UCs:
  * https://github.com/solid/deit/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-09.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development

### Documentation and Discovery
* SC: We have a lot of information and so there is room to improve UCs discovery and communication.
* SC: Questions/Concerns on how to improve:

### Contribution Guidelines
* SC: How to contribute to user stories/cases (documentation and in meetings):
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md
* SC: Describes participants proposing topics before or during meeting:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md
* SC: Topic proposals following the meeting template:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/template.md

> ### Polls or Surveys
> * VB: We can also look into ways to gather data about Use Cases or feedback about process, among other things.
> * VB: There is WIP on [Solid Community Survey](https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/survey) that will be published on solidproject.org.
> * VB: Can we use Solid apps to collect and share this data? Which other tools can we use that are in the spirit of the Solid project (open source, good privacy and terms of service, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

* SC: This is a special topic meeting focusing on reviewing the existing material, and identifying areas to improve towards the development and integration of Use Cases.

### Previous Meeting
URL: https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/2022-12-07.md

### Next Meetings
* SC: The next meetings in December are scheduled for 2022-12-21 and 2022-12-28.

### Process
* SC: Intended to identify areas for integration of use cases. We won't be talking about specific use cases, this is about process, documentation, discovery, guidelines, surveys and so forth. Basically material that we have and how do we put it together in ways that make people more aware and how they can contribute. Nothing here is written in stone. There is room for improvement. I'll share some things we have, topic by topic and people can share how they found that information and whether it is useful for them. First,

> * SC: https://github.com/solid/process/ describes stakeholders, documenting use cases, and encouraging adherence to the W3C Web Platform Design Principles' Priority of Constituencies: https://www.w3.org/TR/design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Intended to identify areas for integration of use cases. We won't be talking about specific use cases; this is about process, documentation, discovery, guidelines, surveys, and so forth. Basically covering material that we have, and how we can put it together to make people more aware of it and how they can contribute. Nothing here is written in stone. There is room for improvement. I'll share some things we have, topic by topic, and people can share how they found that information, and whether it is useful for them. First, https://github.com/solid/process/ describes stakeholders, documenting use cases, and encouraging adherence to the [W3C Web Platform Design Principles' Priority of Constituencies](https://www.w3.org/TR/design-principles/#priority-of-constituencies).
```

> * SC: Put users first, we look at what users need before other stakeholders. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Put users first; we look at what users need before other stakeholders. 
```

  * https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/issues/55 ( https://github.com/solid/webid-profile/pull/80 )
* SC: Involving the DEIT (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion Team) to review UCs:
  * https://github.com/solid/deit/blob/main/meetings/2021-11-09.md#deit-to-review-use-cases-in-specification-development

> * WT: Two small questions, one is the user stories issues list, who manages that? Who puts on the labels and so on?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Two small questions; one is the user stories issues list: who manages that? Who puts on the labels and so on?
```

* SC: Anyone can submit a user story. It's for the organization of it, the tagging, I'd have to double-check the access controls, should be open to anyone in the community. If issues labeling, I can circle back with you.
* TBL: I suppose ... high level roles .. for solid in general, ... they want to, not just produce a list at one level, but recognize some are, I should be able to like somebody's stuff, high level, social media to collaborate, why we are doing all this, ... point to high level one that when you try to match them up to low level ... encourages to long term ...???

> * SC: You are cutting out a bit. Those who have high level view on user stories, some people who tag it initially, but people need to have awareness of all the user stories so they can manage it that way.  Maybe this is something we can follow up on. The labels, most do not have a description, but we could use better descriptions. Some are clear enough. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: You are cutting out a bit. Those who have high level view on user stories, some people who tag it initially, but people need to have awareness of all the user stories so they can manage it that way.  Maybe this is something we can follow up on. Most labels do not have a description, but we could improve that. Some are clear enough. 
```

* TBL: We also have a roadmap we could tie this to, things like media.

> * WT: Thanks Sarven and Tim. Useful to have a more clear understanding of how or if the structure of the user stories, so we don't expect everyone to go through them all, but some indication this might be useful to me cause I'm working on X or Y.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Thanks Sarven and Tim. Useful to have a more clear understanding of the structure of the user stories, so we don't expect everyone to go through them all, but some indication "this might be useful to me cause I'm working on X or Y."
```

> * SC: The readme hints at a general form, As a User ... the form

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: The readme hints at a general form, As a User ... 
```

* SC: Topic proposals following the meeting template:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/template.md

### Polls or Surveys
* VB: We can also look into ways to gather data about Use Cases or feedback about process, among other things.
* VB: There is WIP on [Solid Community Survey](https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/survey) that will be published on solidproject.org.

> * VB: Can we use Solid apps to collect and share this data? Which other tools can we use that's in the spirit of the Solid project (open source, good privacy / terms of service).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* VB: Can we use Solid apps to collect and share this data? Which other tools can we use that are in the spirit of the Solid project (open source, good privacy and terms of service, etc.).
```

  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/README.md
* SC: Topic proposals following the meeting template:
  * https://github.com/solid/specification/blob/main/meetings/template.md
* SC: I'm not sure if there are other guides or documents that exist and where people can get hold of them. I'm just laying out what material we have and what we need to improve. There are meeting guidelines and template.

> * TBL: The person originally brought up the importance of use cases, are they on this call?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* TBL: Is he person who originally brought up the importance of use cases on this call?
```

* TBL: Good point. I agree. 
* SC: There is a Solidproject.org repo. https://github.com/solid/solidproject.org/
* SC: To enable PR's to address issues. 
* TBL: Change the website to add a link to contribute.
* WT: I'll propose that.
* SC: Thank you for volunteering to do that. I like the idea to turn info in these minutes into its own document somewhere.  How you can contribute on Solidproject.org
* WT: I can start from these minutes
* SC: Other info out there if comb through chat or whole Solid organization, though some may be outdated. Anything else on contributing guidelines? (none)

### Surveys
* SC: There is WIP on [Solid Community Survey](https://virginiabalseiro.github.io/survey) that will be published on solidproject.org - by VB / Solid Diversity, Equity and Inclusion Team (DEIT).
  >Through the survey, we wanted to learn about the members who comprise the community, discover issues people might be facing within the community, and how to make the community stronger, more welcoming, and ultimately, larger.

* SC: Results of survey published on this link.

> * SC: Is the survey collecting what we need? We could put together survey to collect information about where people are finding info, also how people are being notified about meetings etc.  I could create an issue on that and we can come up with survey questions and look at it in follow-up meetings. Any ideas on that?  The scheduling, whether meeting time is ok, or languages that user stories are available in, I'm just looking through the survey and thinking of how it applies to use cases.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Is the survey collecting what we need? We could put together survey to collect information about where people are finding info, how people are being notified about meetings, etc.  I could create an issue on that, and we can come up with survey questions and look at it in follow-up meetings. Any ideas on that?  The scheduling, whether meeting time is ok, languages that user stories are available in... I'm just looking through the survey and thinking of how it applies to use cases.
```

* WT: This is so broad, it's hard to pin something down.  You are just talking about a survey, not something already delimited in a way?

> * SC: In context we are talking bout, which use cases may be of interest to implementors.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: In context we are talking about, which use cases may be of interest to implementors.
```

* SC: Let me pull this link up, I've been pushing this for a while, but then we put it aside. 

> * SC: https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/uc-survey.md is one survey to collect some data about proposed use cases, commitment to implement or already implementing. This is quite important before dividing into actual requirements in a spec. It is also good signal to the community whether a feature will actually be implemented - towards "adequate implementation experience" as per W3C Process.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: [One survey](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/blob/main/proposals/authorization-ucr/uc-survey.md) to collect some data about proposed use cases, commitment to implement, or already implementing. This is quite important before dividing into actual requirements in a spec. It is also good signal to the community whether a feature will actually be implemented — toward "adequate implementation experience" as per W3C Process.
```

* SC: We did a similar survey in the W3C Social Web Working Group. [Issue #9 from earlier](https://github.com/solid/specification/issues/9) mentions this as well.

> * SC: Use case being proposed, anyone contributing can say yes it is worth doing or I'm kind of for it and can live without it, and other options. This is the template I was proposing our understanding of the use cases and how it maps to a requirement in a spec. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Use case being proposed, anyone contributing can say "yes it is worth doing", "I'm kind of for it", "can live without it", and other options. This is the template I was proposing for our understanding of the use cases and how it maps to a requirement in a spec. 
```

> * WT: Seems like a good thing to do. Then which use cases, right? If we agree this is a good format, then which use cases do you want to provide to do the survey with. The given UCR there are a lot of use cases surveyed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Seems like a good thing to do. Then which use cases, right? If we agree this is a good format, then which use cases do you want to provide to do the survey with? The given UCR, there are a lot of use cases surveyed.
```
last sentence may need more help

> * SC: This is one of the steps just before writing a line of the spec. Just because someone proposed a use case, doesn't mean there has to be a requirement from it. It's to get a signal from the community that there is a significant amount of parties interested in a requirement for this use case. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: This is one of the steps just before writing a line of the spec. Just because someone proposed a use case, doesn't mean there has to be a requirement from it. It's to get a signal from the community that there is a significant number of parties interested in a requirement of this use case. 
```

> * PA: I see in Issue #9 one issue document per spec, I'm not sure this is the right granularity. For example, for SPARQL, specifications are focused on a particular use case might be transversal, might gut feeling is it might be more efficient to have use cases pointing to the specification they touch on, not necessarily to segregate use cases per specification.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* PA: I see in Issue #9, one issue document per spec, I'm not sure this is the right granularity. For example, for SPARQL, specifications are focused on a particular use case, might be transversal. My gut feeling is it might be more efficient to have use cases pointing to the specification they touch on, not necessarily to segregate use cases per specification.
```

* WT: +1

> * SC: That's interesting. The practice I was following was LDP working group.  I understand different groups may work differently. LDP UCR does not have a back reference to a requirement from the LDP spec. I don't know if another document somewhere that maps functional requirement #1 with a requirement in the spec. No link from either document to the other. Is that the connection you were looking for? UCR to requirement.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: That's interesting. The practice I was following was LDP working group.  I understand different groups may work differently. LDP UCR does not have a back reference to a requirement from the LDP spec. I don't know if another document somewhere that maps functional requirement #1 with a requirement in the spec. No link from either document to the other. Is that the connection you were looking for? UCR to requirement?
```

> * PA: My point was the scope of each specification might be too narrow to justify use cases about that specification. I would feel more comfortable with one use case document maybe not for whole Solid but for core portions. There is a [use case document](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-dawg-uc/) from RDF Access working group that produced SPARQL. They don't point to specific recommendations they produced, but they have one document for use cases that covers a number of specifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* PA: My point was that the scope of each specification might be too narrow to justify use cases about that specification. I would feel more comfortable with one use case document, maybe not for whole Solid, but for core portions. There is a [use case document](https://www.w3.org/TR/rdf-dawg-uc/) from RDF Access working group that produced SPARQL. They don't point to specific recommendations they produced, but they have one document for use cases that covers a number of specifications.
```

> * SC: Good point. I don't think we have that. The user stories come close to that as a collection of things. As you can see, only two or three attempts at having UCR documents in context of authorization and notifications. Anything from Solid Protocol wasn't though through more than institutional knowledge, derived from lessons learned from LDP.  Are you suggesting we should have one overarching use case document? For all work items in Solid ecosystem?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Good point. I don't think we have that. The user stories come close to that as a collection of things. As you can see, only two or three attempts at having UCR documents in context of authorization and notifications. Anything from Solid Protocol wasn't thought through more than institutional knowledge, derived from lessons learned from LDP.  Are you suggesting we should have one overarching use case document? For all work items in Solid ecosystem?
```

* PA: Yeah, it's a gut feeling, it would make more sense.
* WT: I think I second that. We do have two big files with use cases now but even in those, there are subdivisions into sub-specs, so why not make one file of it and have different sections and label accordingly. I think that would be nice.

> * SC: We could. Accidental bottom-up that we have general need for a component like authorizations or notifications, some spec is needed focused only on that. You can take a requirement like creating a container vice listening to updates to a container, they could go in same use case document, the approach here was that they are specific enough so you could have different solutions, so notifications could be a solution to listening and leave that in its own document. Since this is somewhat bottom-up, we could merge or create a document that touches these different areas. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: We could. Accidental bottom-up that we have general need for a component like authorizations or notifications, some spec is needed focused only on that. You can take a requirement like creating a container by(???) listening to updates to a container, they could go in same use case document, the approach here was that they are specific enough so you could have different solutions, so notifications could be a solution to listening and left in its own document. Since this is somewhat bottom-up, we could merge or create a document that touches these different areas. 
```

> * WT: Don't stop on account of me. I wanted to say to give the example about notifications, a use case involving notifications is ever completed without also some implementation of authentication and authorization. So people from authorization have to know to look there as well that involve authorization but are not in our use cases, so if in one document, easier to find.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* WT: Don't stop on account of me. I wanted to say to give the example about notifications, a use case involving notifications is never completed without also some implementation of authentication and authorization. So people from authorization have to know to look there as well that involve authorization but are not in our use cases, so if in one document, easier to find.
```

> * SC: Good clarification. Thank you for raising that. We should have a closer look at how we make it more obvious and we could have See Also's, but I suppose in case of authorization, you would need use cases around notifications or considerations of how spec would need to advise while direct access may not be enabled through the spec, information can be shared in other ways, implementors may need to be aware. A spec could expose info not intended by authorization spec. Something we need to discuss in panels as well. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* SC: Good clarification. Thank you for raising that. We should have a closer look at how we make it more obvious. We could have `SeeAlso`s, but I suppose in case of authorization, you would need use cases around notifications or considerations of how spec would need to advise while direct access may not be enabled through the spec, information can be shared in other ways, implementors may need to be aware. A spec could expose info not intended by authorization spec. Something we need to discuss in panels as well. 
```
